  The first ever Chatsworth High School Robot, the 'Omega' bot constructed for the 2023-2024 
  season, 'Over Under', had a complex history, with months of work fixing dozens of errors, 
  oversights, and random changes in the functionality, especially occurring in the autonomous 
  routine. With most of the team being rookies in robotics as a whole, this was the first ever 
  program written for Vex/robotics by lead programmer Jonathan Lacabe.

  Concurrent to the construction of the first version of the robot sometime in early December of 
  2023, the first drafts and plans for the code of the robot were being created, mainly using 
  Youtube tutorials.[[[the specific ones being seen in the historical resources section of the directory]]]
  The original script utilized tank drive to move (defined in the dictionary), and this was the
  version that the first test of the Omega bot was performed with on December 9th, 2023. 
  Unfortunately, other than some screenshots from the period, the original script from the first
  test of the robot is lost, due to the lack of Github or any collaborative programming. Github 
  would only be utilized starting in April 2024, after the final Vex V5 season competition of 
  Chatsworth.

  The most grueling part of the programming process was undoubtably the writing of the autonomous 
  routine, of which every second of the 15-second routine that was successfully programmed would
  incur errors after having been repeatedly tested, issues that were determined to have occurred
  for reasons outlined in rule 2. of the Rules of Autonomous. Each major section of the autonomous
  took two to three days of work (the team could only meet for an hour and a half after school 
  every day), with errors coming up all the way to the first competition. This is not factoring in 
  the weeks of corrections and compensations for differences in angling that would occur after the 
  'completion' of the autonomous program. This was compounded by the need to create a far side auto, 
  which turned out not to be as simple as just making the values of the near side negative.
 
  This is all led to the favoring of a more generalized routine, as exemplified in section #10 of 
  the autonomous routine. At the end of the routine, when the robot is moving toward the barrier, 
  the robot would be slightly off-center, and the majority of the time, the robot would be angled 
  too far left, resulting in scraping against the wall and a failure to reach the goal. Occasionally, 
  the robot would be angled to the right, which resulted in its own problems, but by focusing on the 
  most common error, the programmers were able to ensure a much higher rate of success. This was done 
  by adding a slight turn rightward right before the end movement, which straightened the path of the 
  robot. Of course, this had the reverse effect on the occasions that the robot was angled too far to 
  the right, which led to a near ensured failure. This led to more generalization, with the number of 
  degrees in the rightward turn being reduced, making the end path less straight (but still reaching 
  the end barrier), but reducing the rate of failure for the instances that the robot was angled to 
  the left. The robot then had a majority success rate in both scenarios. In future projects, the team 
  intends to be data-centric, with a consistent starting position being created using a geometric 
  instrument and the rates of failure and success, as well as the specific scenarios of the failures 
  being analyzed to determine the most common starting point of failure in the routine before making 
  any changes to the code. This will allow the team to consider the huge amount of variables that can 
  effect the success of the routine, as well ensuring error prevention strategies (like testing code at 
  maximum battery and preventing motor burn-out), both of these described in rule 2. of the Rules of 
  Autonomous.

  Many on the robotics team contributed to the programming effort, such as Shoaib Pasha and Ansh Singh. 
  On a day that Jonathan L. was not present, Shoaib took over writing the autonomous for the day, 
  writing parts of sections #5 and #6. 

  The efforts of team coach and mentor Sam F. cannot be overstated in relation to the design of the 
  robot and the writing of the code, with his recommendations for movement programming forming the basis 
  for the movement functions seen at the bottom, as well as his providing of stability and focus to the 
  crazy team. 

  Special thanks to team mentor Sam F. and junior programmers Ansh Singh, Shoaib Pasha, Lucas Solares, 
  Kairo Morrison, Caleb Torres-Vasquez, Nathan Lavy, Jayden Khanlian, and Quentin Dionisio for creating 
  the robot.
